# Answers to Questions Someone May Ask

I'm writing these in the first person as Pablo because that's who I am.

### What is the purpose of Ghostlight?

There's not a short answer to that -- you can read the [About page][1] for the
sales-pitchey angle at it. _But_ if I abandon the sales pitchey angle, here's
the short version: **I'm applying Computers to Theatre as best I can, and seeing
what happens next.** Ghostlight was originally conceived as an archiving tool,
then was thought to be a social network, and now it's more like a project
directory. The more I work on it the more things I realize I can do with it.

Like many Made Things That Are Cool, there are a lot of feelings behind this.

Every time I opened a program I saw one part of a very rich story that wasn't
getting much further than the paper it was printed on. Virtually every artist I
knew in the performing arts was building a career (and a life!) that was mostly
going to exist in their head, or that of their friends'. I also feel like
there's a lot of confusion over ideas of web presence -- _what_ should your
website be achieving? _Who_ should that site (and your work) be reaching?
_How_ will you answer those questions, and once you have those answers, how will
you achieve it?

Given that almost all program bios are listings of a person's previous work,
what happens if we can connect it?

### What projects inspired Ghostlight?

A running joke in tech is to describe your product in relation to another: it's
["Uber for Car Washes"][2]! A "ChatRoulette for Dogs"! It's not too hard to
sound like [a complete jackass][3].

That said, comparing Ghostlight to other sites can be instructive in both
explaining what it does and what informs some of its design.

* pw greenbook.
* GitHub
* IMDb

### Is Ghostlight for sale?

God, I hope not. I have no intention to sell it. I'm not even a Company.

I'm currently paying for this out-of-pocket. Programming is good work and I'm
working for a great company, so they compensate me enough that I can self-run
this, at least for now. If this grows and The Powers That Be want to charge me
an insane amount for this, I might not be able to keep it up, but lets cross
that bridge when we get to it.

### Can I help work on Ghostlight?

I'm glad you asked! I happen to think programming and software are reasonably
awful environments, with heavy gatekeeping preventing people from participating,
especially people of underrepresented groups! Good thing theatre's not like
that!

One thing I often hear brought up as a potential solution to this is the notion
of apprenticeships, and placing a greater emphasis on mentoring. I would be
delighted to teach software a motivated person (or group of people), and we
could use Ghostlight as a place where they can flex their chops.

So **if you have an interest in learning to code and would like me to teach you,
please contact me. _No previous experience required._** Note that I'll be giving
preference to people of underrepresented groups: women, racial/ethic minorities,
queer. If that bothers you significantly I'd guess we're likely to have a hard
working relationship where I'm the boss, so you dodged a bullet!

### I hate this project.

Sorry, homes.

### No really! It's going to kill theatre!

Theatre is killing theatre. The Internet, generally, is killing Theatre. Radio
killed Theatre. TV killed Theatre. Literally everything will kill theatre. This
is a drop in the bucket.

   [1]: About page
   [2]: http://techcrunch.com/2012/08/28/cherry-san-diego/
   [3]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LMmdl4VltD4

